IBX-4642: Storefront config (#1875)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/commerce/storefront/configure_storefront.md

---

> description: Configure Storefront

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Configure Storefront, including catalogs used, customer groups and user accounts.
```

edition: commerce
---
# Configure Storefront

> The Storefront is accesible under the `<yourdomain>/product-catalog`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Storefront is accessible under the `<yourdomain>/product-catalog`.
```

## Catalog configuration

With the `ibexa/storefront` package, you can configure the product catalog and make it available to your shop users. 

> Before you start configuring the Storefront, make sure you have cerated and configured [catalogs](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/pim/work_with_catalogs/#create-catalogs) in the Back Office.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start configuring the Storefront, make sure you have created and configured [catalogs](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/userguide/en/latest/pim/work_with_catalogs/#create-catalogs) in the Back Office.
```

> The configuration is avaible under the `ibexa.system.<scope>.storefront.catalog` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration is available under the `ibexa.system.<scope>.storefront.catalog` key.
```

It accepts the following values:

1\. All products available for all users:

```yaml
ibexa:
    system:
        site:
            storefront:
                catalog: ~
```

> If the `null` as a key value is provided, the Storefront makes the main product catalog (with all products) visibile for all users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If `null`is provided as the value, the Storefront makes the main product catalog (with all products) visible for all users.
```

> 2\. To expose a single catalog with an identifier to all users only a catalog, provide a `string` value under the key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2\. To expose a single catalog with an identifier to all users, provide a string value of the catalog identifier:
```

```yaml
ibexa:
    system:
        site:
            storefront:
                catalog: custom_catalog
```

3\. Specific catalog for the defined customer group

> First, create catalogs in the Back Office.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is repetition of an earlier step

You can expose different catalogs based on a customer group assigned to the current user.

> Next, provide the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do it, provide the following configuration:
```

```yaml
ibexa:
    system:
        site:
            storefront:
                catalog:
                    default: standard
                    customer_group:
                        retailer: retailer_catalog
                        wholesale: wholesaler_catalog
```

> The basic configuration of the Storefront can look as the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic configuration of the Storefront can look as follows:
```

``` yaml
[[= include_file('code_samples/front/shop/storefront/config/packages/ibexa.yaml') =]]
```

## Retrieve catalog assigned to user

> `null` stands for the current user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The `\Ibexa\Contracts\Storefront\Repository\CatalogResolverInterface` service allows to retrieve product catalog available for a specific user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `\Ibexa\Contracts\Storefront\Repository\CatalogResolverInterface` interface allows retrieving the product catalog available for a specific user.
```

> ```php
> 
> namespace Ibexa\Contracts\Storefront\Repository;
> 
> use Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\User\User;
> use Ibexa\Contracts\ProductCatalog\Values\CatalogInterface;
> 
> interface CatalogResolverInterface
> {
>     public function resolveCatalog(?User $user = null): ?CatalogInterface;
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```php
namespace Ibexa\Contracts\Storefront\Repository;

use Ibexa\Contracts\Core\Repository\Values\User\User;
use Ibexa\Contracts\ProductCatalog\Values\CatalogInterface;

interface CatalogResolverInterface
{
    public function resolveCatalog(?User $user = null): ?CatalogInterface;
}
```
```

This should fix a syntax highlighting on GH

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`null` stands for the current user.

```

### Configure user account

The following user settings mechanisms used in `ibexa/storefront` are reused from `ibexa/user` package:

> - [change password feature](../../users/user_management.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [change password feature](user_management.md)
```
